Short:        YAM 2.5 (AmigaOS4) - A MUI Internet e-mail client
Author:       YAM Open Source Team (http://www.yam.ch/)
Uploader:     Jens Langner <Jens.Langner@light-speed.de>
Type:         comm/yam
Version:      2.5
Replaces:     comm/yam/YAM24*
Requires:     AmigaOS V37+/MorphOS, mc68020+/PowerPC, MUI 3.8+
Architecture: ppc-amigaos >= 4.0.0; m68k-amigaos >= 3.0; ppc-morphos >= 1.4.2

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           YAM - Version 2.5
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

About YAM
---------
YAM (Yet Another Mailer) lets you send and receive electronic mail (e-mail)
over the Internet and maintain archives  of messages in your computer via a
graphical  user interface.  The idea  came to  the original  author (Marcel
Beck)  back in  1995  when  he first  tried  using  e-mail. The  programmes
available at the time were either powerful but complicated to configure, or
else  used a  too  limiting user  interface. The  goal,  therefore, was  to
program a  cross between AdMail and  AirMail, with a few  ideas coming from
Pegasus Mail.

While  earlier  versions  of  YAM were  developed  closed  source,  today's
versions are developed  by an independent open source  community. Since the
year 2000 a group of mixed developers maintain YAM and release new versions
from time  to time.  While these  versions are all  targeted for  the Amiga
platform,  versions of  different AmigaOS  incarnations are  supplied. This
includes native  PowerPC ports to  modern Amiga platforms like  AmigaOS4 or
MorphOS.


Before you start the installation
---------------------------------
YAM 2.5  not only uses newer  configuration files, the files  used to store
separate emails are named differently  as well. Therefore, before you start
the  installation  script to  overwrite  your  existing installation,  it's
strongly recommended that you create a backup of your old YAM installation,
including all folders  and configuration files. Afterwards  you can install
the update into  your old YAM directory  if you wish. On  start-up, YAM 2.5
will  automatically convert  your old  configuration files  to the  new 2.5
format,  and after  being  started,  YAM will  rename  your  old emails  as
necessary,  always under  your control.  It  is also  recommended that  you
re-save your  configuration as  soon as  possible in  order to  update your
.config  file to  the new  format, which  will reveal  all the  new options
available.

In addition,  please note  that since  YAM 2.5 no  YAM: assign  is required
anymore. That means, you may even install it in a new location and start it
right  away from  there  without  having to  touch  your old  installation.
Afterwards you  may manually import  the mails from your  old installation.


What's new
----------
Here's a  list (in  alphabetical order)  of the  brave developers  who have
contributed   to    this   release    since   the   last    official   one:

              Alexey Ivanov
              David Rey    
              Guenther Nikl
              Jens Langner 
              Joerg Strohmayer
              Olaf Barthel    
              Thore Boeckelmann

And here's a  PARTIAL list of the  changes in this version  with respect to
the previous official update:

- lots (>800) of bug fixes and large general stability improvements (e.g.
  using buffer overflow safe string functions).
- ported YAM to AmigaOS4 as a fully PowerPC (PPC) native optimized version.
- generally improved the compliance to accepted internet RFC (Request for
  Comments) standards (e.g. RFC2822, RFC2047, RFC2045, etc.).
- new optional embedded read pane for reading emails directly in the
  main window instead of having to open separate read windows.
- new optional search bar for quickly searching for emails or sorting       
  e-mails by categories directly in the main window.
- improved GUI feedback during mail transfers (e.g. for solving the [Abort]
  button issues when transferring mails).
- new automatic conversion of readable HTML mail parts to plain text via
  an intelligent flex scanner engine.
- completely reworked charset (codeset) handling which now uses 
  codesets.library instead (e.g. for full support of UTF-8 mails)
- added support for AmiSSL v3 library (SSL/TLS encryption).
- YAM now supports full SMTP SSLv3 compatibility and the authentication
  method used by SMTP AUTH is now user definable to work around servers 
  that claim to support methods they can't actually handle.
- removed the max. 100 filter limit; also, filters are no longer limited to 
  2 rules each.
- all functions that will cause the info bar to show a progress gauge will 
  allow to abort the operation via a new "X" button now (e.g. cancel a 
  filtering operation).
- added general support for AmiDock (AmigaOS4 only).
- forwarding an email is now possible either by inlining the mail text (old 
  way) or now per default by attaching the forwarded mail.
- an unlimited number of read windows can now be opened in case the
  "multiple windows" option is enabled. 
- completely reworked TCP/IP backend which generally works with 
  non-blocking I/O for increased performance and reliability.
- integrated SPAM filter engine (bayesian based; ported from Thunderbird) 
  which will adapt itself over the time (AKA: learning SPAM filter).
- new themes management which allows users to create own public themes to
  easily provide YAM a completely new image set in a standardised way.
- new automatic online update functionality to inform the user in case new
  updates for YAM are available.
- attachments are now listed in a separate auto-sizable group at the bottom 
  of the Read window or embedded read pane, complete with interactive icons
  (via DefIcons), context menus and some related data. Drag&Drop operations 
  to Workbench also automatically decode the attachment to the dropped 
  location.
- improved context menu support for folder and mail list as well as added
  context menu support for new embedded read pane to shield all 
  functionality of a normal Read window.
- changed keyboard shortcuts for all menus to be fixed throughout all 
  languages. This allows to switch languages without having to learn 
  hotkeys again.
- improved UIDL support to better avoid duplicate mails when downloading 
  via POP3.
- reworked MIME type management, removing the old internal limit of max. 
  100 MIME types, rendering binary identification redundant and finally 
  making YAM fully compliant with RFC2231.
- added support to import/export address book data via standard formats 
  like LDIF, CSV, TSV (comma/tab separated values).
- added support to directly import mails from Outlook Express (DBX).
- added functionality to flag a mail as 'read' after a certain time 
  interval.
- notification sound files are played asynchronously now. 
- changed the toolbar implementation to use TheBar.mcc instead which is 
  more user configurable and supports 32bit alpha channel images as well.
- implemented own image caching mechanism with full support for 32bit alpha
  channel images to be used within YAM (requires an up2date 
  picture.datatype and proper PNG datatype in your system).
- improved autosave functionality for write windows which automatically 
  saves backups of the currently edited message and informs a user during 
  startup in case such a backuped file was found (e.g. due to a crash).
- From: and Reply-To: headers can contain multiple e-mail addresses now.
- updated configuration user interface to be more structured and briefly 
  list what the purpose of a config page is.
- general speed improvements when searching for mails with the normal 
  folder wide search functionality.
- the META data of mail files are not stored in the file comments anymore, 
  but encoded in the filename of mails instead. This shields the advantage 
  that mail files can be stored on file systems not supporting comments now 
  (e.g. NFS). This also makes YAM partly compatible to the 'maildir' 
  standard.
- added support for the proprietary "Status:" and "X-Status:" header values 
  when importing/exporting mails.
- general speed improvements where a too frequent redraw of a gauge gadget 
  caused the application to perform badly.
- improved deletion of temporary files upon quitting YAM. Stale temporary 
  files should be automatically deleted now or the user will be warned 
  accordingly when quitting YAM.
- now handles gracefully "7-bit", "8-bit" and "plain" as
  Content-Transfer-Encoding to support flawed mailers that keep violating 
  the RFCs.
- very large strings that don't fit in the title bar of the Read window 
  have now trailing dots ("...") appended at the end of the displayable 
  part.
- when changing the subject in a write window the title bar will
  immediately be adapted to that change.
- the user will be now consulted when an unknown file is found in a mail 
  folder. Useful to e.g. quickly copy a certain e-mail without resorting to 
  importing.
- now checks if the "(a)rchived" bit has been set on both the .index file 
  and on the mail directory and if so it doesn't rebuild the index despite 
  the modified time stamps, assuming the user has simply used a backup 
  program.
- user images in the Read window are now scaled as appropriate and thus no
  longer need a scroll bar.
- YAM shows a short help information in case it is started with "?" from 
  the command-line.
- for safety, holding the <Del> key down will only delete exactly one email 
  now.
- added support for "multipart/alternative" mails. Just the respective 
  plain text  mail text is shown instead of showing both, an existing HTML 
  and plain text part at the same time (This is what the RFC suggests).
- by default, the folder list now uses bold and grey text to mark folders 
  with new and unread email, respectively; in addition, if the columns 
  listing the number of new or unread emails are turned off, this number 
  will be shown between parentheses right after the folder name, but this 
  is all user definable.
- improved URL highlighting in read windows according to RFC3986.
- when the "Exchange mail" feature is invoked, YAM now first downloads new 
  mail to avoid clashing with servers using the "SMTP-after-POP3" security 
  feature.
- removed the possibility to download user images from the old YAM user 
  gallery as that part of the web page no longer exists and is considered 
  obsolete.
- user selected headers in the "Read" page of the configuration are now 
  printed in the same order the user typed them when the Read window is 
  displaying "short headers".
- by default, the "short headers" string gadget in the Read configuration 
  now also lists the CC: and BCC: headers.
- searches in the address book don't need AmigaDOS wildcards anymore, the 
  input is always considered partial now.
- all mail transfers speeds are now listed as KB/s rather than the 
  old-fashioned characters per second (cps) unit, which is largely what you 
  want in today's DSL times.
- soft style markers (e.g. *bold*) in the text editor are now displayed to 
  make it possible to correctly mark & copy the text from the editor; in 
  addition, support for the old "<sb>" and "<tsb>" markers has been dropped 
  as they aren't standard, though they are still interpreted if they are 
  detected in an e-mail. But you are suggested to not use them anymore!
- soft styles can now be only applied on a word by word basis and never 
  several at once to a single word. This is more the way today's e-mail 
  clients work and  expect text passages to be highlighted.
- no longer switches to the Outgoing folder before sending e-mail.
- double-clicking an e-mail in the Outgoing folder now opens a Write window 
  to edit it immediately.
- dropped the "Return-Receipt-To:" header and made YAM compliant with the 
  general message disposition notification (MDN) framework of RFC3798.
- now gracefully handles SMTP servers that don't bother replying with a 
  positive status code after getting a QUIT command from the client before 
  actually dropping the connection (GoogleMail), clearly violating RFC2821.
- removed support for user-definable quotation marks as this causes more 
  trouble than it's worth; now it will always use "> " which is more or 
  less a standard.
- now uses the more common "[Fwd: Subject]" form instead of "Subject (fwd)" 
  to mark forwarded email subjects.
- each mail folder can now have assigned its own intro and close phrases, 
  overriding the defaults set in the configuration.
- all the images are now loaded via system datatypes, and PNG is considered 
  the default image format.
- a double-click in the header list of the Read window will now toggle 
  between short and full header view.
- now sends STATs to the POP3 server within a defined interval of time to 
  prevent the server from dropping the connection while using the 
  preselection window.
- added possibility to set an amount of time PGP will remember the user's 
  passphrase to avoid asking for it again and again.
- new "Text-->Insert as-->UUencoded text" menu item in the Write window to 
  inline a file as UUcode encoded text directly embedded in the mail text. 
  This allows to exchange binaries on mailing lists not allowing real 
  attachments.
- new "Message-->Edit as new" menu item to replicate an existing message.
- lots of other improvement we don't remember right now (keep in mind: 
  almost 5 years of development was put into YAM 2.5!) :)

If  you want  to have  a more  detailed technical  information on  what was
actually  changed, please  have a  look at  the included  'ChangeLog' file.

What is still missing?
----------------------
- lots of translators! YAM 2.4 featured lots of different languages, but 
  due to the large amount of changed texts these catalogs are completely 
  outdated. Especially support for such common languages as French, 
  Italian, Spanish, etc. is currently missing. If you are a native speaker  
  of a language that YAM does not offer (anymore), then please contact us.
- lots of documentation! As with the translation, the documentation largely 
  lags behind. Again, if you are a native speaker (even for English) and if 
  you are interested in updating/writing YAM's documentation then please  
  contact us.
- now that YAM 2.5 comes with a new themes management, users are free to 
  create own themes in a fashion that allow them to exchange them with 
  other users. So go and create your own themes and submit them via 
  AmiNET&Co! :)


Source code
-----------
Due to lack of time and motivation, Marcel Beck stopped working on YAM back
in 2000, but the sources were released under the GNU General Public License
at SourceForge.net. If you want to  help developing this program further or
perhaps you are considering a port  to a different operating system, please
consider joining the YAM Open Source team  instead of doing it on your own.
Our  home page  is  at http://www.yam.ch/  from which  you  can obtain  all
necessary  information   to  contact  us.   We  want  to  hear   from  you!


Donations
---------
If you  like the development of  YAM and you  want to give our  open source
developers an additional motivation to continue  to update YAM in future or
if you simply want to say "Thanks", the YAM project accepts money donations
via PayPal.  All the  donations during  a release  cycle are  collected and
divided by considering  the activity of each developer during  the time the
development lasted. This way we hope  to attract more developers in future,
which   in   turn  should   give   you   a   new  version   more   quickly.

   http://www.yam.ch/Development/Donations

So in  case you  want to support  our efforts to  develop a  modern up2date
e-mail client  for modern AmigaOS-based  systems, please consult  the above
URL for more information on how to donate to us.


Online resources
----------------
As  YAM is  an  open  source development  effort,  we  have several  online
resources cover your daily YAM needs:

   http://www.yam.ch/      - Official Support Homepage
   http://download.yam.ch/ - Direct path to the download page
   http://faq.yam.ch/      - Online Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 
   http://bugs.yam.ch/     - Bugtracker and Feature Requests
   http://forum.yam.ch/    - Web-based online forum

   For Developers:

   http://nightly.yam.ch/  - Access to automatic nightly developer 
                             snapshots
   http://svn.yam.ch/      - Web-based source code SVN access
   http://stats.yam.ch/    - Daily updated development statistics 

         __
        / /
   __  / /   Only Amiga makes it possible...
   \ \/ /
    \__/

Amiga is a trademark of Amiga, Inc.
